# Changelog

## Release 1.6.2

Release 1.6.2 is a minor maintenance patch containing the following changes:

* Improved logging of signature verification by using the OutputToInputStream converter.
* Increased number of signatures in the PDF report.
* Improved various translations.
* Minor code improvements.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.6.1

Release 1.6.1 is a minor maintenance patch containing the following changes:

* Improved the generation and layout of the election result report.
* Improved translation of the verification report.
* Minor code improvements.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.6.0

Release 1.6.0 includes some feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts and other experts of the community.
We want to thank the experts for their high-quality, constructive remarks:

* Thomas Edmund Haines (Australian National University), Olivier Pereira (Université catholique Louvain), Vanessa Teague (Thinking Cybersecurity)
* Aleksander Essex (Western University Canada)
* Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, Eric Dubuis (Bern University of Applied Sciences)

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.6.0:

* Remove the verification of the zero-knowledge proofs generated by the control components during the configuration phase. Thereby the verifier no longer has an operational role (in line with measure A.22 of the Federal Chancellery's catalogue of measures). The control components' zero-knowledge proofs are now verified by the setup component in the algorithm CombineEncLongCodeShares. Linked to this improvement, we modified the following:
  * Remove the setup dataset.
  * Remove the notion of chunks for sub-dividing certain payloads in the configuration phase.
  * Align the order of setup consistency and final consistency verifications according to the verifier specification.
* Incorporate feedback from independent developers of the verifier software with the following:
  * Increase coverage of test data by adding JSON test data for various algorithms.
  * Provide a detailed description of each file in the JSON schema.
  * Provide detailed test vectors with intermediate values before the hashing operations.
  * Simplify the verification of the digital signature of XML files by following the pseudo-code algorithms in the system specification based on the [XML Signature Syntax](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-core1/).
  * Simplify the generation of XML files by removing the redundant evoting-decrypt XML and eCH-0110 XML, and the corresponding signature verification algorithms.
  * Indicate the version number of the dataset in a corresponding manifest.json file.
  * Ensure the coverage of all cases for the mix net in the corresponding test data.
  * Follow the pseudo-code specification for the dataset encryption.
* Various improvements related to JSON test files and json-schema, including:
  * Replace base16 by base64 in JsonData and JSON test files.
  * Ensure usage of g=4 in test vectors (feedback from Aleksander Essex).
  * Validate all generated JSON files with a json-schema and improve validations (only uppercase UUID).
* Improve the Verifier Frontend
  * Indicate the hash of the eCH-0222 XML file in the verification report.
  * Align the verifier frontend to the Secure Data Manager frontend.
  * Add a display and report for the election event result.
  * Add multi-language support to the verifier frontend.
* Remove the jSurfer dependency (in line with the measure A.10 to reduce third-party dependencies).
* Rename algorithm VerifyTallyFiles to VerifyECH0222 and update its operation according to the verifier specification.
* In VerifyTallyControlComponentBallotBox, use VerifyDecryption with a loop instead of VerifyDecryptions (reported in GitLab Issue [21](https://gitlab.com/swisspost-evoting/verifier/verifier/-/issues/21)).
* Remove the first name from the semantic information of candidates in an election.
* Minor code improvements.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.5.5

Release 1.5.5 incorporates the following change:

* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.5.4

Release 1.5.4 incorporates the following change:

* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.5.3.2

Release 1.5.3.2 incorporates the following change:

* Update e-voting-libraries dependency to 1.4.3.2.

## Release 1.5.3.1

Release 1.5.3.1 incorporates the following change:

* Update e-voting-libraries dependency to 1.4.3.1.

## Release 1.5.3

Release 1.5.3 is a minor maintenance patch containing the following changes:

* Integrated the GetHashElectionEventContext into the VerifySchnorrProofs algorithm (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Fixed a bug where the verifier did not accept compliant passwords.
* Aligned verifier report name to our naming convention.
* Updated the data sets for compatibility with the e-voting release 1.4.3.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.5.2

Release 1.5.2 includes some feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above) and other experts of the community.

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.5.2:

* Fixed an issue where reencrypted datasets were not accepted (feedback from Thomas Haines, Olivier Pereira, and Vanessa Teague).
* Fixed an issue with the correct display of the datasets' hash value.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.5.1

Release 1.5.1 includes some feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above) and other experts of the community.

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.5.1:

* Separate the unzipped folders into context, setup, and tally and validate that the dataset only contains the expected files and folders (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Improved the validations in VerifyPrimesMappingTableConsistency to prevent duplicate actual voting options (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Indicated the encryption password of the example dataset in a readme (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Display the certificate fingerprints in lower case and without colons for better usability.
* Slightly reorganized the verifier front-end.
* Fixed a bug with excessive parallelization for large datasets. 
* Improved the consistency of the dataset file names.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.5.0

Release 1.5.0 includes some feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above) and other experts of the community.

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.5.0:

* Aligned the distinction between context and input variables (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, Eric Dubuis).
* Improved alignment of the implementation to the verifier specification (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, Eric Dubuis).
* Aligned voting option variables to specification changes.
* Aligned the key sizes to the specification changes.
* Simplified the VerifyProcessPlaintexts algorithm according to the verifier specification.
* Restrain the format of the encryption parameters' seed and display it in the verifier overview.
* Centralized the Schnorr proof verification methods to e-voting-libraries.
* Added truncation in the verifier's treatment of the write-in contents.
* Updated the verification of the semantic information.
* Aligned the verification of the primes mapping table consistency to the extended primes mapping table object.
* Modified the input files of the verifier into context, setup and tally.
* Symmetrically encrypt the input files to the verifier as a security best practice.
* Fixed the calculation of the number of confirmed votes in the PDF report for complex election events.
* Regenerated the data set.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.
* Made the file permission explicit to ensure the reproducible build.

## Release 1.4.3

Release 1.4.3 is a minor maintenance patch containing the following changes:

* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.4.2

Release 1.4.2 is a minor maintenance patch containing the following changes:

* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.4.1

Release 1.4.1 includes some feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above) and other experts of the community.

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.4.1:

* Merge verifications VerifySignatureSetupComponentVerificationData, VerifySignatureControlComponentCodeShares, VerifyEncryptedPCCExponentiationProofs, VerifyEncryptedCKExponentiationProofs into one verification VerifySignatureVerificationDataAndCodeProofs.
* Chunk-wise execute the VerifySignatureVerificationDataAndCodeProofs.
* Optimized the performance of consistency verifications by using a specialized library that avoid deserializing the entire payload.
* Minor bug fixes in the PDF report.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

## Release 1.4

Release 1.4 includes some feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above) and other experts of the community.

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.4:

* Aligned the identifiers of the verifications to the identifiers in the verifier specification (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, and Eric Dubuis).
* Added the semantic information of the voting options to the primes mapping table (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, Eric Dubuis).
* Extended the VerifyPrimesMappingTableConsistency verification to check that the setup component's primes mapping table corresponds to the canton's configuration XML.
* Modified the VerifyProcessPlaintexts verification to use the GetEncodedVotingOptions and GetActualVotingOptions algorithm.
* Extracted common algorithms (Factorize, QuadraticResidueToWriteIn, IntegerToWriteIn, isWriteInOption, DecodeWriteIns, GetMixnetInitialCiphertexts, VerifyMixDecOffline, VerifyVotingClientProofs) to evoting-libraries.
* Improved the duplicate checks in various data objects.
* Improved the logging of errors and messages.
* Various improvements in the user interface and the PDF report.
* Updated the verifier to evoting-config version 5.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

---

## Release 1.3.3

Release 1.3.3 contains some minor bug fixes and updates. Release 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 were internal releases and hence do not contain a separate readme.

* Implemented additional XXE protection mechanisms including a locale dependent comparison of strings.
* Fixed minor errors and XML serialization issues in the eCH tally files.
* Improved the error handling when launching the verifier with an incomplete keystore.
* Improved the handling of large election events by implementing streaming upload of the data sets.
* Updated the data sets for compatibility with the e-voting release 1.2.3.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

---

## Release 1.3

Release 1.3 incorporates feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above).

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.3:

* Ensured that the control components' code shares match the expected content and order (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas
  Haines).
* Simplified the QuadraticResidueToWriteIn algorithm (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Improved the immutability of objects in the GetMixnetInitialCiphertexts algorithm (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, and Eric Dubuis).
* Minor alignment and validation improvements in various algorithms (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, and Eric Dubuis).
* Prevented an integer overflow in the consistency check of the number of voters.
* Added information for the manual check by the auditors in the print mode UI.
* Separated the election event context into a cryptographic setup component public keys object and a domain-specific election event context.
* Optimized the performance in various operations using parallelization and caching.
* Added a new participant "CANTON" to the direct trust keystores.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

---

## Release 1.2

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.2:

* Support Elections in the eCH-0110 file
* Integrate the DecodeWriteIns (including all the sub-algorithms) in the VerifyProcessPlaintexts algorithm
* Check the signature of the eCH-0222 & add it to the completeness check
* Add the verification of the eCH-0222 to the VerifyTallyFiles Algorithm
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.

---

## Release 1.1

Release 1.1 fixes the following known issues and incorporates feedback from the Federal Chancellery's mandated experts (see above).

The following functionalities and improvements are included in release 1.1:

* Enforced the security level EXTENDED (3072 bit modulus) in the algorithm VerifyEncryptionParameters (feedback from Aleksander Essex, Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, Eric Dubuis, Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Implemented the verification of the proper decoding of voting options and the generation of the tally files (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, and Eric Dubuis).
* Included the primes mapping table in the VerifyVotingClientProofs algorithm to ensure that all parties have a consistent view (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, and Eric Dubuis).
* Implemented the verification of the Schnorr Proof algorithms in the algorithm VerifyKeyGenerationSchnorrProofs and added corresponding consistency checks (feedback Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Added additional consistency checks in the VerifyTally phase (feedback from Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Implemented the DecodeVotingOptions algorithm and included it in the ProcessPlaintexts algorithm (feedback from Rolf Haenni, Reto Koenig, Philipp Locher, Eric Dubuis, Vanessa Teague, Olivier Pereira, and Thomas Haines).
* Fixed the incorrect ordering when reading files from the file system (fixes [GitLab Issue #3](https://gitlab.com/swisspost-evoting/verifier/verifier/-/issues/3)).
* Improved the input validation in the method VerifyEncryptedPCCExponentiationProofsVerificationCardSetAlgorithm.
* Implemented the verification of the direct trust signatures of the configuration, decryption and eCH-0110 files.
* Enforced the domain of the actual voting options.
* Migrated the JKS keystores to the standard PKCS12 keystores.
* Updated dependencies and third-party libraries.
